#Python Functions

- To write a function, you must have a heading and an indented block of code. The heading starts with the keyword def and the name of the function, followed by parentheses, and a colon. The indented block of code performs some sort of operation. This syntax looks like:
- In Python, the amount of whitespace tells the computer what is part of a function and what is not part of that function.
```text
def function_name():
    # some code
```

- There are many built in functions in python which can be used time to time we can retrieve results from function as well as pass data to function.
- Functions are very helpful in unit testing also.

## built-in functions
- Python offers a bunch of built-in functions to make your life as a data scientist easier. You already know two such functions: print() and type(). You've also used the functions str(), int(), bool() and float() to switch between data types. These are built-in functions as well.

## get help from function

- To get help on the max() function, for example, you can use one of these calls:
```text
  help(max)
  ?max
```

```python
# get name of function:
def function():
    pass

fname = function.__name__
```

## default argument

- We can also define default arguments for a function using syntax very similar to our keyword-argument syntax, but used during the function definition. If the function is called without an argument for that parameter, it relies on the default.
- Once you give an argument a default value (making it a keyword argument), no arguments that follow can be used positionally. For example:

example1:
```text
def greet_customer(special_item="bananas", grocery_store): # this is not valid
    ...

def greet_customer(special_item, grocery_store="Engrossing Grocers"): # this is valid
```
example2:
```text
def add_student(name, student_id = 332):

calling function 
add_student("Nitin") will also work now.

Also named argument is valid option in python:
add_student(name: "Ntiin" , student_id: 332)
```

## variable number of arguments
- we can pass variable number of arguments to above function
```text
def var_args(name, *args)
 
print(name)
print(args) 
var_args("Nitin", 332, "Mark", "something" ,"something else")
```

## Multiple return values:
- Sometimes we may want to return more than one value from a function. We can return several values by separating them with a comma:
```text
def square_point(x_value, y_value):
  x_2 = x_value * x_value
  y_2 = y_value * y_value
  return x_2, y_2
  
This function takes in an x value and a y value, and returns them both, squared. We can get those values by assigning them both to variables when we call the function:

x_squared, y_squared = square_point(1, 3)
print(x_squared)
print(y_squared)  
  
```

## keyword arguments:
- When a function call completes, all the parameters will no longer store any values in them.

```text
def var_args(name, **kwargs)

Now we can pass arguments as key:value pair:

var_args("Nitin", student_id=332, newname= "Mark", description= "something", more_description="something else", feedback=None)
```