
# Reading and Writing to Files:

- [Reading and Writing to Files](https://github.com/nitops/python-practice/tree/main/1_basic_pyhon/6_reading_writing_to_files)

##  What's with "with"? 

- We’ve been opening these files with this with block so far, but it seems a little weird that we can only use our file variable in the indented block. Why is that? The with keyword invokes something called a context manager for the file that we’re calling open() on. This context manager takes care of opening the file when we call open() and then closing the file after we leave the indented block. 
- Why is closing the file so complicated? Well, most other aspects of our code deal with things that Python itself controls. All the variables you create: integers, lists, dictionaries — these are all Python objects, and Python knows how to clean them up when it’s done with them. Since your files exist outside your Python script, we need to tell Python when we’re done with them so that it can close the connection to that file. Leaving a file connection open unnecessarily can affect performance or impact other programs on your computer that might be trying to access that file. 
- The with syntax replaces older ways to access files where you need to call .close() on the file object manually. We can still open up a file and append to it with the old syntax, as long as we remember to close the file connection afterwards.

## csv file

- CSV files are an example of a text file that impose a structure to their data. CSV stands for Comma-Separated Values and CSV files are usually the way that data from spreadsheet software (like Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets) is exported into a portable format. 

### Reading CSV file
- Even though we can read these lines as text without a problem, there are ways to access the data in a format better suited for programming purposes. In Python we can convert that data into a dictionary using the csv library’s DictReader object. Here’s how we’d create a list of the email addresses of all of the users in the above table:

```python
""" getting list of Emails from csv and storing them as list"""

import csv

list_of_Emails = []
with open('users.csv', newline='') as csv_file:
    csv_content = csv.DictReader(csv_file)
    print(type(csv_content))
    for row in csv_content:
        # print(line['Email'])
        list_of_Emails.append(row['Email'])
    print(list_of_Emails)
```

## JSON file

- JSON, an abbreviation of JavaScript Object Notation, is a file format inspired by the programming language JavaScript. The name, like CSV is a bit of a misnomer — some JSON is not valid JavaScript (and plenty of JavaScript is not valid JSON).
- **Python comes with a json package that will help us parse JSON files into actual Python dictionaries**

### Reading Json
- First we import the json package. We opened the file using our trusty open() command. Since we’re opening it in read-mode we just need to pass the file name. We save the file in the temporary variable purchase_json.
  We continue by parsing purchase_json using json.load(), creating a Python dictionary out of the file. Saving the results into purchase_data means we can interact with it. We print out one of the values of the JSON file by keying into the purchase_data object.

purchase.json
```json
{
  "user": "ellen_greg",
  "action": "purchase",
  "item_id": "14781239"
}
```

```python
import json

with open("purchase.json") as purchase_json:
  purchase_data = json.load(purchase_json)

print(purchase_data["user"])
# Prints 'ellen_greg'
```

### writing to json

```python
# define dictionary below to create json from it.
data_payload = [
    {'interesting message': 'What is JSON? A web application\'s little pile of secrets.',
     'follow up': 'But enough talk!'}
]

import json

with open('output_json.json', 'w') as output_json:
    json.dump(data_payload, output_json)
```
- We import the json module, open up a write-mode file under the variable json_file, and then use the json.dump() method to write to the file. json.dump() takes two arguments: first the data object, then the file object you want to save.