
# Lists in Python


- [code eamples](https://github.com/nitops/python-practice/tree/main/1_basic_pyhon/3_lists)
- [small programs based on lists](https://github.com/nitops/python-practice/tree/main/2_python_examples/1_list_examples)
- A list can contain any Python type. Although it's not really common, a list can also contain a mix of Python types including strings, floats, Booleans, etc.
- As opposed to int, bool etc., a list is a compound data type; you can group values together
- A list begins and ends with square brackets ([ and ]).
- Each item (i.e., 67 or 70) is separated by a comma (,)
  - It’s considered good practice to insert a space () after each comma, but your code will run just fine if you forget the space.
  

## Adding two lists

- use append
```python
orders = ['daisies', 'periwinkle']
orders.append('tulips')
```

- When we want to add multiple items to a list, we can use + to combine two lists.

## using 'range' function to create list

- The function range takes a single input, and generates numbers starting at 0 and ending at the number before the input.
  Just like with zip, the range function returns an object that we can convert into a list

```python
list1 = range(3)
print(list1)  # output: range(0, 3)
print(list(list1)) # output: [0, 1, 2]
```
- By default, range creates a list starting at 0. However, if we call range with two arguments, we can create a list that starts at a different number.


- With one or two arguments, range will create a list of consecutive numbers (i.e., each number is one greater than the previous number). If we use a third argument, we can create a list that “skips” numbers. For example, range(2, 9, 2) will give us a list where each number is 2 greater than the previous number:

```python
my_range2 = range(2, 9, 2)
print(list(my_range2))

# output: [2, 4, 6, 8]
```

## delete list

```python
list2 = [ 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 ] 
del list2[:]
```

## lists of lists
- A list can contain any Python type. But a list itself is also a Python type. That means that a list can also contain a list.

## slicing and dicing list

- Selecting single values from a list is just one part of the story. It's also possible to slice your list, which means selecting multiple elements from your list. Use the following syntax:

```
  my_list[start:end]
```
- The start index will be included, while the end index is not.
- In above example we also see it's also possible not to specify these indexes. If you don't specify the begin index, Python figures out that you want to start your slice at the beginning of your list. If you don't specify the end index, the slice will go all the way to the last element of your list
- Sub setting lists of lists -> 
```text
You saw before that a Python list can contain practically anything; even other lists! To subset lists of lists, you can use the same technique as before: square brackets. Try out the commands in the following code sample in the IPython Shell:
x = [["a", "b", "c"],
     ["d", "e", "f"],
     ["g", "h", "i"]]
x[2][0]
x[2][:2]

x[2] results in a list, that you can subset again by adding additional square brackets.
```
