
# Python Tips and Tricks

 
- Python treats double and single quotes identically
- Dictionaries do not care about order. Keys have to be unique
- print
```text
print(""""     


           """") 
this is used to print multiline string
this also preserves quotes, whitespaces  etc.
```

- **Self**. Prefix for variables exposes it to be available throughout the class.
- A statement is a complete line of code that performs some action, while an expression is any section of the code that evaluates to a value. ... Every expression can be used as a statement (whose effect is to evaluate the expression and ignore the resulting value), but most statements cannot be used as expressions.
- to check what variable and values are contained in given object or class, we can check namespace as follows:
```text
print(app1.__dict__)  #app1 is object of some Employee class

output:
{'first_name': 'suman', 'last_name': 'jain', 'email': 'suman.jain@mycompany.com', 'pay': 50000}
```

### python module help
- help(module_name)
  - example: help(math)
- importing specific function in module
  - example: `from math import pi`

- There are a number of built-in functions and constants that don't require importing, like print()
    - **python module list** - https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/index.html
    - You can also download modules and libraries that don't come built-in to Python using pip, Python's package manager

## Errors

### TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str
- This is because the + operator does:
  - addition on two numbers 
  - concatenation on two strings 
  - undefined on a string and a number

###   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
- This is an unintuitive way of saying that the error occurred in the Python Console.
- \<stdin> stands for "standard input". So the error occurred in the Python Console where you input code (instead of a file).
- \<module> just means that the line of code referenced wasn't inside a function or class. (More on functions in Lab 3 and classes in Lab 8).
- reference https://learning.oreilly.com/scenarios/hands-on-python-foundations/9780137904648X002/
- 

### know python type
- Use the type() function to see what type an object is: