
### integer vs float

- If most integer values can be represented as a float by adding a decimal and a 0 after it, and float values have a much wider range of values that includes decimal values, why would we ever need to use integers over floats?

- **Answer**:
  - it would  probably make more sense to use integer values to count things that do not have fractional values, like counting how many students are in a class, or the length of a string in Python, which is always a whole number (You will never have a string that is 2.5 characters long).
  - float values sometimes behave in unexpected ways due to how they are stored in computer memory, especially when using very large float values.
  - list can only access elements by whole number indexes.
  - range() function in python can takes only whole numbers


### nested list
- [example](https://github.com/nitops/python-practice/blob/main/1_basic_pyhon/3_lists/1.2_nested_list_example.py)
- Do the lists passed to the zip() function have to be the same length?
  - The zip() function will only iterate over the smallest list passed. If given lists of different lengths, the resulting combination will only be as long as the smallest list passed

### Difference between *args and *kwargs
 
- Both to be defined at end
- Variable number of arguments can be passed in both
- Args can have any argument type while kwars can only have key:value pair
- Args and kwars can be replaced with any other word too.

### python's end paarameter in print()

- By default python's print() function ends with a newline. A programmer with C/C++ background may wonder how to print without newline.
- Python's print() function comes with a parameter called 'end'. By default, the value of this parameter is 'n', i.e. the new line character. You can end a print statement with any character/string using this parameter.

```python
# ends the output with a <space>
print("Welcome to" , end = ' ')
print("GeeksforGeeks", end = ' ')
```